1_insulin: Govt eliminated collusion by collapsing multiple markets into a single market and reducing frequency of interactions. Insulin prices fell and insulin procurement rose. This led to increased usage, reduced complications and lower deaths. 

2_cars: Estimates a random coefficient logit (RCL) for differentiated product market, where heterogeneity in choice stems from consumer demographics. Consumer choices are aggregated to market level and handles price endogeneity by using product characteristics as instruments. 

3_cereal: Examines a highly concentrated industry to estimate price-cost margins. Margins come from accross-firm brand differentiation, within-firm brand differentiation and collusion. Demand is estimated by BLP. Three supply side are tested, which attribute entire margin to one type: single product competition (only accross-firm brand diff), multi-product competition (first two types), and collusion. Margins implied by second structure is closest to actually estimated margin. Market power exists because firms can generate lack of substitutatbility between their own brands. Uses Hausman instrument (other city prices). 

4_beer: Prices rose after a merger that was approved. Model allows post-merger market to deviate from Bertrand Nash. Post-merger we see market structure change and that causes further co-ordinated price effects. The reduced size of the market leads to larger incentive to collude. 

5_gasoline: Studies how collusion rises through repeated interactions and easy information availability. Market leader BP influenced the followers to follow cyclical pricing to set higher prices during periods of higher demand. This shows how collusion can occur even without any explicit conversation or exchanges of emails. Repeated interaction and information feedback set conditions for collusion. 

6_vitamins: Collusion is incentive compatible when short-run gains are lower than long run profits. Cartels in Vitamins collapsed because incentive conditions failed due to (a) rise of fringe supply (China) and (b) reduction in world demand. In some markets the cartel collapsed early - this happens precisely when future conditions did not permit incentive compatibility condition to hold in the future. 

7. IO emerged from monopoly and oligopoly studies. SCP paradigm - technology and costs determined structure, which determined conduct (monopoly/oligopoly/competition), which determined performance (profits). Problems with SCP - grouping them into SIC codes did not address that their products only have few competitiors. Data insufficient to test simultaneous theories. 

AM- applied micro deals with integrated structure, conduct and performance. NEIO - uses game-theoretic models of supply with differnetiated product demand. New Institutionalism - activities and organization with opportunism, incomplete contracts and asset specificity. . 


13_foreclosure: Exclusive deals; cost based foreclosure prevents other firms from dealing with low-cost distributor. demand based foreclosure prevents other firms from dealing with distributers better at promotion. Beer industry.   

 